docs/i3blocks.1.adoc, before:

:progname: i3blocks

= {progname}(1)

== NAME

{progname} - A minimalist scheduler for your status line scripts

== SYNOPSIS

*{progname}* [_OPTION_]...

== DESCRIPTION

The {progname}(1) command generates a status line for i3bar(1).
It schedules command lines described in a simple configuration file at specified time intervals, upon signal reception or on clicks.

== OPTIONS

*-h*::
Show the help message and exit.

*-c* _CONFIGFILE_::
Specifies an alternate configuration file path.

*-v*::
Increase log level.
This option is a cumulative.
By default only fatal errors are shown in the status bar.
Passing this option once will show error messages as well.
Using *-vv* and more will show more debug output on standard error.

== CONFIGURATION

{progname} must be defined as the status line command of the *bar* block described in your i3(1) configuration file:

[source]
----
bar {
  status_command i3blocks
}
----

By default, {progname} looks for a configuration file in the following order (note that /etc may be prefixed with /usr/local depending on the compilation flags):

. _$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/i3blocks/config_ (or _~/.config/i3blocks/config_)
. _~/.i3blocks.conf_
. _$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/i3blocks/config_ (or _/etc/xdg/i3blocks/config_)
. _/etc/i3blocks.conf_

The configuration file uses a simplified INI format.
Each section describes a new block to be displayed in the status bar.
A line beginning with a _#_ sign is a comment, and empty lines are ignored.
A property is one _key=value_ pair per line, without spaces surrounding the equal sign.
Properties declared outside a block (i.e. at the beginning of the file) describe global settings and are merged into every block definitions.

You must refer to http://i3wm.org/docs/i3bar-protocol.html to know what properties are understood by i3bar(1).

The following properties are interpreted by **{progname}** to describe how the optional command must be scheduled.

=== command

The command line to be invoked with `sh -c`.

Data read from the standard output of the command is used to update the block properties.
Data is interpreted depending of the specified _format_.

=== interval

If it is a positive integer, then the block is spawned on startup and the value is used as a time interval in seconds to schedule future updates.
If undefined or 0, the block won't be executed on startup (which is useful to simulate buttons).

If _once_ (or _-1_), the block will be scheduled only on startup (note that a click or signal will still trigger an update).

If _repeat_ (or _-2_), the block will be scheduled on startup, and as soon as it terminates (useful to repeat blocking commands).

If _persist_ (or _-3_), the block will be scheduled only on startup, and updated as soon as it outputs a line.
Updates are thus limited to single lines.

=== signal

The signal number used to update the block.
All the real-time (think prioritized and queueable) signals are available to the user.
The number is valid between _1_ and _N_, where _SIGRTMIN+N=SIGRTMAX_.
(Note that there are 31 real-time signals in Linux.)
For instance, _signal=10_ means that this block will be updated when **{progname}** receives the _SIGRTMIN+10_ signal.

=== format

This property specifies the format of the output text.

When undefined, the raw format is assumed.
In this format, each non-empty line of the output is used to update an i3bar key, in the order of definition found in the i3bar protocol:

. _full_text_
. _short_text_
. _color_
. _background_

Excess lines are considered an error.

If _json_ (or _1_) is used, the block output is read as a JSON object and will be merged into the block properties.

== SEE ALSO

i3(1), i3bar(1), i3status(1)

== AUTHORS

{progname} is written by Vivien Didelot and other contributors.

== RESOURCES

*Project web site:* https://vivien.github.io/i3blocks

*Git source repository and issue tracker:* https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks

*Official collection of scripts for {progname}:* https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib

*i3bar protocol:* http://i3wm.org/docs/i3bar-protocol.html

== COPYING

Copyright (C) Vivien Didelot.
Free use of this software is granted under the terms of the _GPLv3+_ License.

Commit message:

config: change to config file parent directory
This patch changes the current working directory to the parent directory
of the configuration file, so that command properties can be relative to
the file where they are defined.

This will avoid requiring full path commands or prefix variables like
$SCRIPT_DIR as we are currently using in the contrib repository.

docs/i3blocks.1.adoc, after:

:progname: i3blocks

= {progname}(1)

== NAME

{progname} - A minimalist scheduler for your status line scripts

== SYNOPSIS

*{progname}* [_OPTION_]...

== DESCRIPTION

The {progname}(1) command generates a status line for i3bar(1).
It schedules command lines described in a simple configuration file at specified time intervals, upon signal reception or on clicks.

== OPTIONS

*-h*::
Show the help message and exit.

*-c* _CONFIGFILE_::
Specifies an alternate configuration file path.

*-v*::
Increase log level.
This option is a cumulative.
By default only fatal errors are shown in the status bar.
Passing this option once will show error messages as well.
Using *-vv* and more will show more debug output on standard error.

== CONFIGURATION

{progname} must be defined as the status line command of the *bar* block described in your i3(1) configuration file:

[source]
----
bar {
  status_command i3blocks
}
----

By default, {progname} looks for a configuration file in the following order (note that /etc may be prefixed with /usr/local depending on the compilation flags):

. _$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/i3blocks/config_ (or _~/.config/i3blocks/config_)
. _~/.i3blocks.conf_
. _$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/i3blocks/config_ (or _/etc/xdg/i3blocks/config_)
. _/etc/i3blocks.conf_

The configuration file uses a simplified INI format.
Each section describes a new block to be displayed in the status bar.
A line beginning with a _#_ sign is a comment, and empty lines are ignored.
A property is one _key=value_ pair per line, without spaces surrounding the equal sign.
Properties declared outside a block (i.e. at the beginning of the file) describe global settings and are merged into every block definitions.

You must refer to http://i3wm.org/docs/i3bar-protocol.html to know what properties are understood by i3bar(1).

The following properties are interpreted by **{progname}** to describe how the optional command must be scheduled.

=== command

The command line to be invoked with `sh -c`.

It can be relative to the configuration file where it is defined.

Data read from the standard output of the command is used to update the block properties.
Data is interpreted depending of the specified _format_.

=== interval

If it is a positive integer, then the block is spawned on startup and the value is used as a time interval in seconds to schedule future updates.
If undefined or 0, the block won't be executed on startup (which is useful to simulate buttons).

If _once_ (or _-1_), the block will be scheduled only on startup (note that a click or signal will still trigger an update).

If _repeat_ (or _-2_), the block will be scheduled on startup, and as soon as it terminates (useful to repeat blocking commands).

If _persist_ (or _-3_), the block will be scheduled only on startup, and updated as soon as it outputs a line.
Updates are thus limited to single lines.

=== signal

The signal number used to update the block.
All the real-time (think prioritized and queueable) signals are available to the user.
The number is valid between _1_ and _N_, where _SIGRTMIN+N=SIGRTMAX_.
(Note that there are 31 real-time signals in Linux.)
For instance, _signal=10_ means that this block will be updated when **{progname}** receives the _SIGRTMIN+10_ signal.

=== format

This property specifies the format of the output text.

When undefined, the raw format is assumed.
In this format, each non-empty line of the output is used to update an i3bar key, in the order of definition found in the i3bar protocol:

. _full_text_
. _short_text_
. _color_
. _background_

Excess lines are considered an error.

If _json_ (or _1_) is used, the block output is read as a JSON object and will be merged into the block properties.

== SEE ALSO

i3(1), i3bar(1), i3status(1)

== AUTHORS

{progname} is written by Vivien Didelot and other contributors.

== RESOURCES

*Project web site:* https://vivien.github.io/i3blocks

*Git source repository and issue tracker:* https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks

*Official collection of scripts for {progname}:* https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib

*i3bar protocol:* http://i3wm.org/docs/i3bar-protocol.html

== COPYING

Copyright (C) Vivien Didelot.
Free use of this software is granted under the terms of the _GPLv3+_ License.
